Tools & Techniques for Digital Humanities
=========================================

Syllabus, FS 2015
-----------------

### Course Instructor

Prof. Dr. Tara L Andrews  
Unitobler D306 (Muesmattstrasse entrance)

### When and Where

Wednesday, 10:15am–11:45am; Hörraum F003, Unitobler, Lerchenweg 36

### Office Hours

Monday and Wednesday, 2:00–3:00pm, or by appointment.

### Course Evaluation 

Course evaluation will be a combination of participation (30%), weekly
homework assignments (30%), and the collaborative final project (40%).

### Class Participation

Each class session will consist in large part of practical hands-on
exercises led by the instructor. **BRING YOUR LAPTOP!** We will
accommodate whatever operating system you use, but it should be a laptop
rather than a tablet. We will run a post-it note system in the class. If
you get stuck, you put a post-it note on your laptop. If you have
finished an exercise, you should look around for post-it notes and try
to help whoever is stuck. You get a participation point for asking for
help (putting up a Post-it note) as well as for trying to help someone
who is stuck!

### Homework

Just as in research and real life, collaboration is a very good way to
learn and is therefore encouraged. If you need help with any assignment,
you are welcome to ask a fellow student. If you do work together, then
along with your homework please include a brief note (just a sentence or
two) to indicate who did what.

### Final Project

The final project will be done in small groups (2-3 students each). You
choose a project to carry out that draws upon the tools and methods we
cover in class, as well as your own strengths and field interests. You
should choose your groups by the end of March, and describe your planned
projects during the class session on 15 April. You will present and
demonstrate your results during the final meeting on 27 May.

### Week-by-Week Syllabus

  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  *18 February*:   Introductions, installation workshop, first steps in Python  
                     *Homework: Codecademy tutorials 1–6, get PygLatin running in PyCharm on your own computer!*

  *25 February*:   The command line and your filesystem  
                     *Homework: Codecademy tutorials 7–11 and filesystem exercises*

  *04 March*:      Digitization: transcription, OCR, markup  
                     *Homework: Codecademy tutorials 12–15*

  *11 March*:      Structuring data, text collation  
                     *Homework: Codecademy tutorials 19–21*

  *18 March*:      Regular expressions  
                     *Homework: exercises in regular expressions*

  *25 March*:      Graph methods and visualization  
                     *Homework: exercises in making a graph*

  *01 April*:      Citation management and Zotero  
                     *Homework: exercises in using an API*

  *08 April*:      **EASTER BREAK – NO CLASS**

  *15 April*:      **NO CLASS**

  *22 April*:      GIS and mapping data  
                     *Homework: exercises in making a map*

  *29 April*:      From Markdown to blogs: Online publishing  
                     *Homework: write a blog post about your projects*

  *06 May*:        Keeping track of your work: Version control  
                     *Homework: work on your projects*

  *13 May*:        Text stylometry and topic modeling  
                     *Homework: work on your projects*

  *20 May*:        Linguistic corpus analysis and NLTK  
                     *Homework: finish your projects!*

  *27 May*:        **FINAL PROJECTS DUE**
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


